---
layout: post.html
title: Dave Birch
---


Synopsis
--------

Creator, team-player, life-long learner, dreamer. Driven to help build the best brands and the best companies.

Designing, developing and implementing effective brands – specializing in utilizing rich media to distribute messages

Designing and implementing cohesive user experiences for web and mobile platforms.

Skills
------


### Languages

* Javascript: 8 years
* Python: 2 years
* HTML/HTML5: 8 years
* ActionScript: 3 years
* CSS/CSS3: 8 years

### Technologies & Frameworks

* JQuery
* LESS
* Tornado
* Django
* Bootstrap
* Adobe Creative Suite
* Selenium
* NoseTests

### High impact digital, video and print design

Experience
----------

### Creative Director & Co-Founder, Snoball Inc. Austin, TX. 2011 - Present

Responsible for branding, promotion and front end development of [Snoball.com][snoball],
while managing a small creative team for various projects. Tasks include
converting legacy site design to a responsive, adaptive design. Developed front
end interfaces utilizing JSON APIs for various user groups and client-specific
Web, mobile, and site-specific apps (including Facebook and Foursquare apps).

### Creative Director & Co-Founder, Collective Labs. College Station, TX.  2011 - Present

Responsible for branding, promotion and front end development of Collective
Labs and its two flagship products, [BlinkSend][blinksend] and [Snoball][snoball]. Tasks include
creation of motion graphics and videos, front-end design and interface
development, assisting in implementation of usability enhancements to all sites
and projects.

### Creative Director, [Phodder LLC][phodder]. College Station, TX. 2008 - 2010

As part of a web and mobile application consulting team, worked daily with
clients managing projects, expectations and ensuring quality work, as well as
managing a number of off-site contractors. Routinely created media for the IOS
platform. Responsibilities included advising on and assisting in the
development of effective brands and user interfaces.

### Graphics Specialist, Texas A&M. VPAPIT Marketing. College Station, TX. 2004 - 2009

Developed website design front ends starting with interface designs and
frameworks, migrat- ing to Photoshop mock-ups and developing into fully
functional HTML/CSS sites. Re- searched and made recommendation for various
mobile-friendly software solutions, utilizing Javascript and jQuery libraries.

Developed Flash applications including TAMULink interactive map, multi-video
players and closed-caption video players. Developed several websites designs:
[it.tamu.edu][it.tamu.edu], [cis.tamu.edu][cis.tamu.edu], [tamulink.tamu.edu][tamulink.tamu.edu],
[codemaroon.tamu.edu][codemaroon.tamu.edu], [cas.tamu.edu][cas.tamu.edu], [security.tamu.edu][security.tamu.edu]


Developed print and multimedia pieces for several campaigns including Security
Awareness Month '07 (Winner: IABC Silver Quill, Brazos Bravo, SIGUCCS) and
Howdy promotional material (Winner: Brazos Brazo, SIGUCCS). Provided creative
guidance and direction for the design of annual reports.

Produced marketing collateral, business identity, logos, trade booth displays,
signage, web- site interface design and multimedia CD ROMS for the various
groups and departments. Developed marketing and brand identities for Computer
Information Services, Educational Broadcast Services, University
Telecommunications, and Associate Provost for Information Technology and
Council of Senior Business Administrators at Texas A&M University.

Education
---------

### Azusa Pacific University, Azusa CA — 2001 BA Communication & Media Studies

Referrals
---------

Available Upon Request


[snoball]: http://snoball.com
[blinksend]: http://blinksend.com
[phodder]: http://phodder.com
[it.tamu.edu]: http://it.tamu.edu
[cis.tamu.edu]: http://cis.tamu.edu
[tamulink.tamu.edu]: http://tamulink.tamu.edu
[codemaroon.tamu.edu]: http://codemaroon.tamu.edu
[cas.tamu.edu]: http://cas.tamu.edu
[security.tamu.edu]: http://security.tamu.edu
